Now you know all about Electro placement and Lead
So what does it all mean
The ECG machine record electrical activity using the following convention
Electrical activity moving towards
What's the positive end of the electron is shown as an upward deflection
Can on the ECG lead
Electrical forces moving away from the positive end of the electrode is shown as a downward deflection
Electrical force moving perpendicular to the electrode will have biphasic isoelectric deflection or maybe note
Deflection
Electrical forces moving exactly parallel to electrode will have the greatest amplitude
I'll go straight this using lead one only
Remember this lead goes from the right arm towards the left on
If the electrical forces are moving towards the patient's left
Parallel and towards a positive end of the electrode
MLB large upward deflection
If the electrical forces are moving towards the patient's left but not exactly parallel to the lead
They will be an upper deflection but it will be of lesser magnitude
If the electrical forces are moving away from the positive end
Or towards the right arm in the case of Lead 1
10 reflection
Will be downward
And finally if the electrical forces are moving perpendicular to the positive end of the electrode so just straight downward in the case of Li
The net will be an isoelectric deflection or notify
By comparing deflection in all 12 lead shown on an ECG you can determine exactly which direction impulses travel
Bubbling at any given moment
I want to make sure the defections are clear
Since the forces are moving inferiorly they're traveling towards the positive ends of the inferior leads
2 3 and avf
Different show up as positive
In a normal Rhythm depolarization begins and SA node at the Superior part of the right atrium
And spreads downwards during atrial depolarization
Therefore during normal atrial depolarization the inferior leads should show positive deflections
This is a fundamental concept that will come again soon
Now it's time to learn the major deflections of an ECG
First comes a P wave which represents atrial depolarization
As I already showed depolarization translates to physical contraction
Do calcium dependent calcium release
However
By convention ECGs don't show contraction they show depolarization
You can only actually visualize contraction through Imaging such as an echocardiogram
It may be semantics and many people don't stick this convention but I feel it is important distinction
Do the conduction delay at the AV node the tracing returns to Baseline after the P wave
Next to see the QRS complex
Which is when the ventricles are depolarizing
The tracing returns to Baseline again after us
And lastly you see the T wave which represents the repolarization or relaxation of the ventricles
Atrial repolarization is not seen
Because it is hidden within the QRS complex
Since the Atria are relaxing while the ventricles are Contracting
Let's break down the QRS complex
Any initial downward deflection is a Q wave
The first up or deflection is called in our way
Any downward deflection pass Baseline after an R wave is an s-wave
Any subsequent up or deflection after an S Wave is called in our Prime wave
Manicurist complexes
Have an initial deflection that is up for
Enough do not have
There many different QRS patterns
Who you have a normal QRS where the initial deflection is downward the Q wave
Then there's a positive deflection the r-wave and then finally another down or deflection path Baseline the S Wave
You can also have an R wave
Which is simply an upward deflection that returns to Baseline
Notice that there are no downward deflections below Baseline so there are no Q or S waves
There's also the Q waves
Which is an initial downward deflection that returns to Baseline
I would call this a Q wave but some people call this a q s Wave by convention
You can also have this wave which shows an initial up or deflection the r-wave
Dennett downward deflection pass Baseline
The S Wave
And finally another up or deflection past Baseline the are PrimeWay
Therefore this is called an rsr Prime pattern
All transferred to as bunny ears
Of course ventricular depolarization follows the conduction pathway that we described earlier including the right and left bundle branches
Kendra sells and the ventricular myocytes themselves
But ECGs don't show the depolarization of single my sides
They show the overall depolarization in a given Direction
To make this clear the following explanation is talking about the average impulsive actor at a given point in time
Keeping this in mind you should know that these varying QRS patterns exist
Because of ventricular depolarization does not occur in Only One Direction
If example the ventricles were simply activated from right to left
Then the Cure us would simply look like a tall R wave as the impulse travels towards the left lateral leads
Such as v v v 6-1 and AVL
A daddy
Q wave
In a VR as the impulse travels away from the right
Unfortunately it's a little more complicated than that
Instead ventricular depolarization begins in the left side of the interventricular septum
And then spreads downward and rightward
Towards the right ventricle
When the right and left ventricles are depolarizing the left ventricle Dominic because because it has much thicker myocardium
Does the overall electrical forces swing towards the left
Once the entire myocardium is depolarized there is no longer any potential difference
So they were tracing returns to Baseline
Aloha Street this using lead one which again goes from the right arm to the left arm
As the interventricular septum depolarizes from left to right the impulse is moving away from the left arm which shows a small
All downward deflection
As the overall impulse swings back the left it is now moving towards the positive electrode
So you see a strong positive deflection
Then the tracing return to Baseline once depolarization is complete
You can see this forms a QR wave
Nothing about what this would look like for lead 3
Li 3 is an inferior lead
An initial downward in right word impulse should be directed exactly towards the positive electrode for lead 3
This should appear as positive deflection
As overall forces continued downward and to the left
It is traveling roughly perpendicular to the lead so they're chasing returns to Baseline
And as the impulse travels towards the left lateral Direction
It is traveling away from the positive electrode so there should be a negative deflection
You should recognize that this is an RS weight
So
You can see that the exact same impulse shows up differently in different leads because each lead has a different perspective of the same in
Now we have to consider the same concept in the transverse plane of the chest leads
It's important to remember that the right ventricle is anterior to the left ventricle
Does Ozzy impulse initially travels from the left side of the interventricular septum towards the right ventricle
The vent the vector points both right word and anteriorly
This will be
Towards lead V1
Show me the POS of deflection
And away from lead V6 shown as a negative
As the impulse swings back the left ventricle the vector points
Leftward and posterior Li
This is a way from V1 show me the negative deflection and towards V6 shown as a positive deflection
Pace V2 V3 V4 and V5 show the intermediate stages as the r-wave
Grow taller
This is turn our way for Crush
The lead in which the height of the r-wave becomes a greater magnitude than the depth of the S Wave
It's called the transition
Which is usually lead V3 or V4
I think the best way to explain this is simply that the main Vector during ventricular depolarization is to the left
Does the thick of my aquarium in the left ventricle
Does the further left the lead is the higher the r-wave should be
These examples show why QRS complexes have different patterns
Different leads in A Normal Heart
I hope it is clear that within a single ECG
Each lead can show different cross pattern
Because each lead has a different perspective on the same impulse